Add guide about syncing and resetting the blockchain - Closes #1264 (#1307)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/management/reset-synchronize.adoc

= Resetting and synchronizing a node
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
// Settings
:toc:
// Project URLs
:url_lisk_snapshots: https://snapshots.lisk.com
:url_lisk_snapshots_testnet: https://snapshots.lisk.com/testnet/
:url_lisk_snapshots_mainnet: https://snapshots.lisk.com/mainnet/

== Synchronizing a node

If a node is started for the first time, it will synchronize to the latest block height of the network, starting from the genesis block.

> The synchronization from genesis block can take a long time, depending on how many blocks have to be synchronized from the genesis block, to reach the latest block height of the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The synchronization from the genesis block can take a long time, depending on how many blocks have to be synchronized from the genesis block, in order to reach the latest block height of the network.
```

> To speed up the process, a snapshot of the blockchain can be used. A snapshot is basically a database export of the blockchain from a certain time, including all blocks and transactions that are added to the blockchain so far.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To speed up the process, a snapshot of the blockchain can be used. A snapshot is basically a database export of the blockchain from a certain time period, that contains all blocks and transactions which have been added to the blockchain so far.
```

=== Downloading a snapshot

> Official snapshots are stored downloaded under the following URL: {url_lisk_snapshots}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Official snapshots are stored and can be downloaded via the following URL: {url_lisk_snapshots}.
```

* Snapshots for the Lisk Mainnet: {url_lisk_snapshots_mainnet}
* Snapshots for the Lisk Testnet: {url_lisk_snapshots_testnet}

> The Lisk Core CLI provides a command `blockchain:download`, which supports in downloading the correct snapshot. It also verifies the correct download by verifying the checksum of the snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lisk Core CLI provides a command `blockchain:download`, which supports downloading the correct snapshot. It also verifies the correct download by verifying the checksum of the snapshot.
```

----
$ lisk-core blockchain:download --help
Download snapshot from <URL>.

USAGE
  $ lisk-core blockchain:download

OPTIONS
  -n, --network=network  [default: mainnet] Default network config to use. Environment variable "LISK_NETWORK" can
                         also be used.

>   -o, --output=output    Directory path to specify where snapshot is downloaded. By default outputs the files to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -o, --output=output    Directory path to specify where the snapshot is downloaded. By default, it outputs the files to
```

>                          current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                         the current working directory.
```

  -u, --url=url          The url to the snapshot.

EXAMPLES
  download
  download --network betanet
  download --url https://snapshots.lisk.io/mainnet/blockchain.db.tar.gz --output ./downloads
----

How to download a snapshot of the Lisk blockchain:

[tabs]
====
Mainnet::
+
--
*Linux:*

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core blockchain:download --network=mainnet
----
--
Testnet::
+
--
*Linux:*

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core blockchain:download --network=testnet
----
--
====

=== Importing a snapshot

Stop Lisk Core before importing the snapshot:

[source,bash]
----
pm2 stop lisk-core
----

Import the snapshot to Lisk Core, by using the `blockchain:import` command:

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core blockchain:import ./path/to/blockchain.db.tar.gz --force
----

Now start Lisk Core again:

[source,bash]
----
pm2 start lisk-core
----

> When Lisk Core is started now, it will start the synchronization from the block height of the snapshot to the current height of the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Lisk Core is now started, it will start the synchronization process from the block height of the snapshot to the current height of the blockchain.
```

A command reference can be viewed by adding the `--help` parameter:

----
$ lisk-core blockchain:import --help
Import from <FILE>.

USAGE
  $ lisk-core blockchain:import FILEPATH

ARGUMENTS
  FILEPATH  Path to the gzipped blockchain data.

OPTIONS
  -d, --data-path=data-path  Specifies which data path the application should use. Environment variable
                             "LISK_DATA_PATH" can also be used.

  -f, --force                Delete and overwrite existing blockchain data

EXAMPLES
  blockchain:import ./path/to/blockchain.db.tar.gz
  blockchain:import ./path/to/blockchain.db.tar.gz --data-path ./lisk/
  blockchain:import ./path/to/blockchain.db.tar.gz --data-path ./lisk/ --force
----

== Creating own snapshots

To create own snapshots of the blockchain, use the `blockchain:export` command:

[source,bash]
----

> lisk-core blockchain:import ./path/to/blockchain.db.tar.gz --force

Reviewer 2: Isn't it should be: 
```
lisk-core blockchain:export --output ./my/path/
```

Author: yes, indeed 👍

----

A command reference can be viewed by adding the `--help` parameter:

----
$ lisk-core blockchain:export --help
Export to <FILE>.

USAGE
  $ lisk-core blockchain:export

OPTIONS

>   -d, --data-path=data-path  Directory path to specify where node data is stored. Environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -d, --data-path=data-path  Directory path to specify where the node data is stored. Environment variable
```

                             "LISK_DATA_PATH" can also be used.

>   -o, --output=output        The output directory. Default will set to current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -o, --output=output        The output directory. The default will be set to the current working directory.
```
